the savage rocky shores of Christmas
Island 200 miles south of Java in the
Indian Ocean
it's November the moon is in its third
quarter and the Sun is just setting and
in a few hours from now on this very
Shore a thousand million lives will be
launched
these crabs are all females and of a
kind that occurs only on Christmas
Island as darkness falls more and more
of them appear tampering resolutely down
to the sea now its nearing midnight
their numbers can only be guessed at but
on the island as a whole there are
probably a hundred and twenty million of
these crabs and nearly all the adult
females among them have chosen this time
for their annual spawning
a crab like this is carrying about
hundred thousand
and she has to shed them down directly
into the sea if they had to hatch but
that's a hazardous business order
because although her far distant
ancestors came from the sea she herself
is a land and she can't swim so if a
wave sweeps her away she will assure the
drug but nonetheless her compulsion to
launch the next generation is
irresistible and when at length she does
reach the sea a triumph
the crabs have picked the moment when
the tide is at its highest so that they
have the shortest distance to travel
across the beach to reach the water the
astronomical numbers of their eggs turn
the clear ocean water into a black
turbid soup
as dawn approaches and the tide recedes
so the eggs are swept out to sea